Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we're going to talk about the function scope and the EFFI pattern.
All right, so before starting this lecture, I'm just going to provide some space, a lot of space,
and we are talking we are going to talk about a scenario.
All right.
So, for example, you are like a senior developer in a in a company like in a big company.
Right.
And you have this entire application, right.
That you are managing and you're working on that belongs to a specific company.
All right.
And for example, your group hires a junior developer.
Right.
And you have created this is like a very, very simple example.
And I'm trying to prove a point here.
And you have created a variable.
The identifier is a teacher and you have assigned a value to it.
And based on that, you have run a certain piece of code.
Right.
But in between your application, because the junior developer doesn't really like he doesn't know.
Maybe he doesn't know or maybe he didn't see this teacher.
He creates another teacher variable and assigns it to what assigns it to, let's say, Jack.
Right.
We know that whenever we we run our original code, we would see inside the console, Tom.
And now if you run it, we are going to see Jack.
We can go ahead and log this as well.
And I'm just going to say, teacher, before that, what I want to do is I want to come in to file preferences,
settings, format on save.
On safe, yeah, it is not it shouldn't formatted unsafe because the prettier is disabled.
Yeah.
So if I were to comment this out, we can see that it says Tom in here.
But when by mistake or accidentally we go ahead or a person goes ahead and defines another variable,
the assignment, this this expression is going to replace this one because they're within the same scope.
So how can we solve this problem?
Well, the first solution that comes to our mind is just go ahead and wrap it inside a function so we
can go ahead and we create a function and we say another teacher.
Right.
And we put the code in here.
But the problem with this is that this another teacher is still this is still inside this global school.
So we can still access this VA teacher.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and say I'm going to call this teacher, another
teacher, and we are just going to call it.
And it says it says, first off, we are going to see Jack and then we are going to see it tongue.
But but another way, actually a better way is that before going into that, I just want to explain
to you guys that this function name or the function identifier, which is written here, it points to
this function.
It calls this function, but this parentheses is what executes the function.
Executing the function means that we run the code inside the function.
So there is another pattern that we can use here is that just go ahead and put it inside parentheses
in here and this code is going to run.
It might look weird to you, but this is going to run.
So if I just save it, we can see our results here.
But if we go ahead and put the function call in here, why not put the entire function in here?
All right, so I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to put the entire function in here and we are
going to call it and we can see the result is the same.
We get Jack.
Now, why should we do this?
This is because we want to avoid any naming collisions inside our software.
Right.
And there is actually the principle of least exposure, also called the principle of of at least privileged
privilege in software engineering that says you should default to keeping everything private and only
exposing the minimal necessary.
This is one of the core principles of software engineering.
It is a defensive approach that says, I do not want my stuff to be available to avoid these kinds of
problems.
All right.
The function name was called the function, right?
This is going to call the function and this parenthesis, this is going to execute the function.
Right.
So this this person sorry, this parenthesis right here, it is going to execute the function.
Now, this is no longer a function declaration.
It is a function expression, no syntax.
Syntactically, the difference between a function declaration and a function expression is that function
declarations in their statement, the first word, like literally the first word is function.
All right.
But as far as function expressions are concerned, if the first word is anything apart or aside from
function, then that expression, that function is going to be a function expression.
So the the job of these two parentheses that we added here, one at the start of the function and one
at the end of the function is they don't do anything else but to convert this function declaration into
a function expression.
And whenever they convert it and we pass the parentheses in front of it, we want to immediately call
this function.
So without a function call, we immediately invoke this function.
Invoking a function or calling a function is the same thing.
So this is an immediately invoked function expression.
And what is the benefit of this?
The benefit of this function expression is that we have no, we don't we don't have any access to this
function.
This function runs once and that's it.
We cannot access this function anymore.
So if I were to go ahead and to write another teacher and call it, we are going to see a unanchored
reference or it says another teacher is not defined even though it is defined.
But this is not accessible.
All right, because this another teacher.
It's actually a function is an immediately invoked function expression, and the job of these function
expressions is that they should run and go away, go away and never run again or or be called again.
OK, that's why we use it.
Right.
So I can show you another example of this as well.
So if you were to have like, for example, if you were to have parameters for this function, where
would you you might ask, OK, if we have a parameter here, where should we pass and the argument for
that parameter.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to create name num square and I'm going to pass an X, right.
And in here here is our function body.
This is where we execute the function.
So in here, what I want to do is I want to say console does log X times X.
All right.
So this is our parameter.
Where where do we pass?
And the argument the argument is always passed inside the parentheses where the function is called.
So if we were to have a normal function here that we would call NUM Square and we would pass X and we
would say cancel dot log X, oops X times X, and then we would call the function here name Square,
but we would not pass the value inside the function call.
We would pass the value inside the function, executable parentheses.
We would pass in five.
So where are these parentheses and this function in this Effi, where are they?
They are right here.
So in here we are just going to go ahead and pass and fight and I'm just going to remove that code.
And when I say it.
OK, we should see.
So this is Kansa Log Function Square, we have X times X and this is where we pass in our uncute is
not a function of intermediate value, intermediate value, this type or where is the problem in here?
So we have our function.
Right, and the function is inside these parentheses and it is named Square.
We have X here and we want to console, we want to log to the console X times X.
All right, so.
We have a function, we have a variable here, we have a function in here, and we have a function here,
you know what?
What I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to grab our format and say, OK, I'm
going to I'm just going to turn on.
Maybe there is a there we do have a type and I cannot find out where that paper is coming from.
So we have mistyped something and I and I can see what that is or.
Right.
I'm just going to say.
Oh right.
What is this.
So these ought to be two different functions.
The first function, it ends right here.
So I have to put in a semicolon there and just hit enter and serve it.
And now we can see that this function runs.
So whenever you want to pass and I just had my picture turned off.
Now the prettier is turned on once more because I had a type error.
So I knew that there was a problem.
There is something missing.
OK, that's why we have typesetters.
All right, so if you miss a semicolon or you miss a parentheses, you're going to have type error.
And this five is the argument.
It is going to be passed here.
And and eventually this council log is going to reference that and we are going to end up with twenty
five.
So this is going to be it for our function scope and the EFFI pattern.
This is one of the used cases.
The pattern is used whenever we want to hide something that is not accessible outside that function
and we want to immediately run that function.
So this function is going to be is going to run whenever we reload the page.
So I reload.
This function is going to run.
Right.
So this is going to be it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.